Add documentation on one-time token authentication in Compass security (#873)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/compass/03-01-security.md

### Tenant Mapping Handler

> It is an OathKeeper [hydrator](https://github.com/ory/docs/blob/525608c65694539384b785355d293bc0ad00da27/docs/oathkeeper/pipeline/mutator.md#hydrator) handler responsible for mapping authentication session data to tenant. It is built into the Director itself, as it uses the same database. It is implemented as a separate endpoint, such as `/tenant-mapping`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is an OathKeeper [hydrator](https://github.com/ory/docs/blob/525608c65694539384b785355d293bc0ad00da27/docs/oathkeeper/pipeline/mutator.md#hydrator) handler responsible for mapping authentication session data to the tenant. It is built into the Director itself as it uses the same database. It is implemented as a separate endpoint, such as `/tenant-mapping`.
```

To unify the approach for mapping, we introduce `authorization_id`, widely used by multiple authentication flows.
The `authorization_id` is equal to:
- `client_id` in the OAuth 2.0 authentication flow

> - `username` in the Basic authentication flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `username` in the basic authentication flow
```

Author: Basic is the proper name here and should be capitalized.

- Common Name (CN) in the Certificates authentication flow
- Client ID in the one-time token authentication flow

> While generating one-time token, `client_id`/`client_secret` pair or basic authentication details for Runtime/Application/Integration System (using proper GraphQL mutation on the Director), an entry in `system_auths` table in the Director database is created. The `system_auths` table is used for tenant mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While generating the one-time token, the `client_id`/`client_secret` pair, or basic authentication details for Runtime/Application/Integration System (using proper GraphQL mutation on the Director), an entry in the `system_auths` table in the Director database is created. The `system_auths` table is used for tenant mapping.
```

> In certificates authentication flow, Tenant Mapping Handler puts fixed `scopes` into authentication session. The `scopes` are fixed in code, and they depend on the type of the object (Application/Runtime/Integration System). In the future we may introduce another database table for storing generic Application/Runtime/Integration System scopes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certificates authentication flow, Tenant Mapping Handler puts fixed `scopes` into an authentication session. The `scopes` are fixed in code, and they depend on the object type (Application/Runtime/Integration System). In the future we are planning to introduce another database table for storing generic Application/Runtime/Integration System scopes.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if writing about future plans is a good thing as there is always a chance it won't happen.

Author: I agree, it's just this document was a proposal and another TW is in the process of converting it into "regular" documentation in another PR.

In JWT token from identity service flow, for local development, user `tenant` and `scopes` are loaded from ConfigMap for given user (email), where static `user: tenant and scopes` mapping is done.

#### `system_auths` table

> The table is used by the Director and Tenant Mapping Handler. It contains the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table is used by the Director and the Tenant Mapping Handler. It contains the following fields:
```

- `id`, which is the `authorization_id`
- `tenant` (optional field - used for Application and Runtime, not used for Integration System)
- `app_id` foreign key of type UUID
- `runtime_id` foreign key of type UUID
- `integration_system_id` foreign key of type UUID

> - `value` of type JSON (with authentication details, such as `client_id/client_secret` in OAuth 2.0 authentication flow, `username/password` in Basic authentication flow; in the case of certificates flow it is empty)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `value` of type JSON, with authentication details, such as `client_id/client_secret` in OAuth 2.0 authentication flow, `username/password` in Basic authentication flow. In the case of the certificates flow, it is empty.
```

### GraphQL security

> The Gateway passes the request to Compass GraphQL services, such as the Director or the Connector. Additionally, the request contains authentication data. In the Director it is a JWT token, in the Connector it is the `Client-Id-From-Token` or the `Client-Id-From-Certificate` and `Client-Certificate-Hash` headers. The GraphQL components have authentication middleware and GraphQL [directives](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#directives) set up for all GraphQL operations (and some specific type fields, if necessary). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gateway passes the request to Compass GraphQL services, such as the Director or the Connector. Additionally, the request contains authentication data. In the Director it is a JWT token, in the Connector it is the `Client-Id-From-Token` or the `Client-Id-From-Certificate` and `Client-Certificate-Hash` headers. The GraphQL components have authentication middleware and GraphQL [directives](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#directives) set up for all GraphQL operations. They also have some specific type fields if that is necessary. 
```

}
```

> Instead of manually defining these directives in the GraphQL schema, we can automate it using [gqlgen](https://gqlgen.com/reference/plugins/) plugins.

Author: I'll leave it for @klaudiagrz to update.

#### Limiting Application/Runtime modifications

> Application/Runtime shouldn't be able to modify other Applications or Runtimes. In the future, to limit the functionality, we will introduce another GraphQL directive.

Author: I'll leave it for @klaudiagrz to update.

**Obtaining token:**

1. Runtime/Application/IntegrationSystem requests `client_id` and `client_credentials` pair from the Director by a separate GraphQL mutation. Director generates the pair, registers it in Hydra with proper scopes (defined by object type), and writes it in database.

> 1. Runtime/Application/IntegrationSystem calls Hydra with encoded credentials (`client_id` is the ID of `SystemAuth` entry related to the given Runtime/Application/IntegrationSystem) and requested scopes.

Author: As we discussed, @klaudiagrz is working on it.

1. If the requested scopes are valid, Runtime/Application/IntegrationSystem receives in response an access token, otherwise it receives an error.

**Request flow:**

1. Authenticator calls Hydra for introspection of the token.
1. If the token is valid, OathKeeper sends the request to Hydrator.

> 1. Hydrator calls Tenant Mapping Handler hosted by `Director` to get `tenant` based on a `client_id` (`client_id` is the ID of `SystemAuth` entry related to the given Runtime/Application/IntegrationSystem) .

Author: That's a good point, but I'll leave it to @klaudiagrz  as well.

**Scopes**

Scopes are added to the authentication session in Tenant Mapping Handler. The handler gets not only `tenant`, but also `scopes`, which are fixed regarding of type of the object (Application / Runtime). Application and Runtime are always have the same scopes defined.

### One-time token

**Used by:** Runtime/Application

**Connector flow:**

> 

Reviewer: These are strange, I understand you wanted to avoid H4 but maybe that is another reason why that doc could be split into a few ones. I would also rather use full sentences than such "headings" "**Used by:** Runtime/Application".

Author: Good point, again, I'll leave it to @klaudiagrz.

1. Runtime/Application makes a call to the Connector's internal API.
1. The OathKeeper uses the Token Resolver as a mutator. 

> The Client ID is extracted from the one-time token's `Connector-Token` header or from the `token` query parameter, and is then written to the `Client-Id-From-Token` header. In the case of failure, the header is empty.

Reviewer: Can we make an active voice out of it?

1. The OathKeeper proxies the request further to the Compass Gateway.
1. The request is forwarded to the Connector.

> ![Auth](./assets/token-security-diagram-connector.svg)

Reviewer: I think there is some object/subject missing on the diagram (and on other as well) that initiates step 1.

Author: I'll discuss it with @klaudiagrz when she gets back so that all of them are unified.

**Director Flow:**

1. Runtime/Application makes a call to the Director.
1. The OathKeeper uses the Token Resolver as a mutator. The Client ID is extracted from the one-time token's `Connector-Token` header or from the `token` query parameter, and is then written to the `Client-Id-From-Token` header. In the case of failure, the header is empty.

> 1. The call is then proxied to the Tenant mapping handler mutator, where the Client ID is mapped onto the `tenant` and returned to the OathKeeper. 

Reviewer: Here it is "the Tenant mapping handler" and in other parts of the doc "Tenant Mapping Handler" so let's unify that.

> 1. Hydrator passes the response to ID_Token mutator which constructs a JWT token with scopes and tenant in the payload.

Reviewer: and not "ID Token mutator" or `ID_Token` mutator?

Author: I'll discuss it with @klaudiagrz when she gets back.

1. The OathKeeper proxies the request further to the Compass Gateway.
1. The request is forwarded to the Director.

![Auth](./assets/token-security-diagram-director.svg)

**Scopes**

> 

Reviewer: That could also be a header if the doc was shorter.

Author: I'll discuss it with @klaudiagrz when she gets back.

> Scopes are added to the authentication session in Tenant Mapping Handler. The handler gets not only `tenant`, but also `scopes`, which are fixed regarding of type of the object (Application/Runtime). Application and Runtime always have the same scopes defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scopes are added to the authentication session in the Tenant Mapping Handler. The handler gets not only `tenant` but also `scopes` which are fixed regardless of the object type (Application/Runtime). Application and Runtime always have the same scopes defined.
```

Author: That's not what this paragraph is trying to say, but it should be fixed anyway. Thanks for pointing it out! I missed this error.
